cool I think we can get started hello
everyone my name is JM one of the expert
IELTS teachers here at e2 language in
this life class we're going to look at
IELTS academic writing task 1 we're
going to look at bar graphs this is the
second one that I've done on bar graphs
so if you've missed the first one you
might want to watch that so on test day
you might see something that looks like
this the more that I do IELTS writing
task 1 the more that I think this is
actually really really complex and
really hard to get right woopsie you
sorry about that you need some sort of
structure to do that and let's just look
at this graph here let's just take a
close look at it ok first thing that I
notice about this is that there is a
blue and there's a red okay
blue is for Democrats red is for
Republicans ok and then I fit the second
thing I notice is the x-axis no high
school high school graduate some college
college graduate post graduate
fine then I notice over here
percentages so I can sort of look at
this and I can just work out just from
looking at it that let's just look at
Democrats first let's just look at the
blue ones forget the red ones Democrats
so about 4% of Democrats have no high
school and about 22% of Democrats have a
high school graduate certificate that's
what's at like 27% of something of
Democrats have some college education
let's keep looking at the blue ones same
thing here about 27% it looks like if
Democrats have a college graduate degree
and finally here we can see about 20% of
Democrats have a postgraduate degree now
let's look at Republicans okay because
we're at some stage we're going to have
to compare these two voter groups so
Republicans have about what's that about
what's that three or
troupers maybe 2% I can't tell exactly
because there's no granularity here but
I can guess that that's about two
percent of Republicans have no high
school what's this about twenty two
percent of Republicans have a high
school degree fine about 30 percent so
it's a bit higher than the Democrats
about thirty percent of Republicans have
some college the same thing here about
30 percent have a college graduate
degree and what's this like 16 percent
maybe have postgraduate qualification
for Republicans okay that's fine so
we've understood Democrats we've
understood Republicans
let's now sort of think about comparing
the two because we're going to have to
do that so let's think about comparing
these two so Nora high school so more
Democrats
it should say Democrats by the way not
Democrats that's a spelling mistake
so more Democrats have no high school
okay so in other words more Republicans
past high school than Democrats okay
fine
look at this one here at high school
graduate it's almost identical this one
some college more Republicans have some
college than Democrats more Republicans
have a college graduate degree than
Democrats but here more Democrats have a
postgraduate qualification than
Republicans so we've just done very
quickly we've done two things we've the
first thing we did is we understood the
graph and we looked at the sort of key
features okay of each of each of those
bars second thing we did was we sort of
compared Republicans versus Democrats
okay this is what you need to do in fact
let's have a closer look at what you
need to do on test day where is it okay
here if we read this first sentence it
says the graph below shows the levels of
education of Democrat and Republican
voters in the USA the graph below shows
the levels of education of Democrat and
Republican voters in the USA okay I
think we understand that now now we need
to do three things we need to summarize
the information select and report the
main features and make comparisons where
relevant we need some sort of structure
here what we're going to do is we're
going to write a three section I
wouldn't call it an essay a description
a three section description we're going
to summarize very briefly we're going to
describe key features and then we're
going to compare the two okay so what
we're going to write on test day will
look like this the first part is a
summary and in fact this is a quite a
long summary usually we'll just write a
single sentence but for this one I
thought that I'd write two sentences
because I needed two and then in the
second paragraph we'll have a
description and then the third paragraph
we're going to compare Democrats and
Republicans
okay so let's sorry let's think about
how we summarize first which is this
first part here let me read it to you
the bar chart illustrates the various
levels of Education of two sets of
voters in the USA
Democrats and Republicans the
educational qualifications include no
high school high school graduates some
college college graduates and
postgraduate studies so we've basically
just in in in well two sentences here
we've described that graph and all we
did to do that is we just rewrote this
in our own words and in a little bit
differently because I included features
from the graph but what I want you to do
is just to write rewrite this single
sentence in your own words I'll give you
one minute to do that please
don't worry about the x-axis stuff just
right rewrite this one sentence please
and and and let me fix something before
you do that because it should be
Democrat with a capital D and it should
be Republican with a capital R
you
alright let me have a look you guys here
okay
the bar chart depicts the educational
levels between the Democratic and
Republican eligible voters in America
yeah take about that was a beautiful
beautiful little description well done
the graph represents the different types
of educational levels of two groups full
colon not semi colon Democrats and
Republicans in the USA good well done
that's fine the graph illustrates the
level of education of two main
categories of voters in the USA that is
comma that is Democrats and Republicans
goo really good I'm happy of these the
graph below describes the number of
Democrats and Republican voters who take
know high school post graduate in the
USA okay that's right
colleagues looking through the window
there
the bar chart Illustrated some Democrat
okay this one's off topic the but this
bar graph illustrates some Democrat and
Republican vote percentages in the USA
you've left out a critical bit of
information which was the levels of
education the levels of education of
voters in the USA the given chart
depicts data regarding the level of
education of the following two voter
groups in the United States full colon
not semi colon two dots not dot inline
Republican and Democrats one more the
bar graph below illustrates the
education level among two types of
voters in the USA
great that's fine that's fine good
that's the easy part that's the easy
part now we get into the hard part so
there was mine mine was longer because I
took the x-axis information and I
included it including the no high school
the high school graduate to some college
the college graduates and the post
graduates you you can do that if you
want but I'm happy with yours okay now
we move to the next section there the
tough well this isn't the hardest part
this is where we need to describe main
trends or key features okay describe
main trends or key
features were not comparing yet okay so
let's read mine I said overall comma
educational qualifications varied among
voters very few people did not graduate
from high school and a small percentage
achieved postgraduate qualifications
most people attained a high school
certificate achieved some college or
actually graduated from college okay
let's read it again and I want you to
while I'm reading this to think about
the graph itself so my first sentence
overall educational qualifications
varied among voters it did vary among
voters because remember we had some that
were 3% some that were 22% some that
were 30% etc second sentence very few
people did not graduate from high school
okay that was right at the left hand
side of your screen and a small
percentage achieved postgraduate
qualifications that was at the very
right hand side of your screen so they
were the smallest number of percentages
and then in the middle of the graph we
had most people attained a high school
certificate achieve some college or
actually graduated from college so let's
look at this again so what I did before
you look here don't don't look here just
yet just look at this graph so first
sentence what I did is I just described
this overall and what can you see well
it varies various numbers okay here it's
like 3% here it's like 20 here it's like
30% so educational levels of voters in
the USA vary so say something about it
varying they vary or various people
achieved various levels because it is
varied right okay then what I did is
this I said okay very few people did not
finish high school remember I'm just
describing key features I'm not getting
into any
detail here nor y-axis stuff okay so
none of nothing from here and I also
said very few I said also very few
people completed postgraduate studies
which is kind of a little bit inaccurate
but it was okay and then I said most
people most people got a High School
Certificate completed some college or
graduated from college so I want you to
do this and let's look on the right-hand
side now I want you to just quickly
describe and you may want to combine
Cendant you might want to combine this
with this or this with this or this with
this whatever but you just need to
describe the key features no details
just the key features of people who
achieved and also we're not talking
about specifics of Democrats and
Republicans we just sort of looking at
the blue and red lines the key features
so here it's quite small here it's
larger larger larger and reasonably
small so talk about no high school high
school graduation some college college
graduation postgraduate studies so I
want you to try and write this in about
two or three three sentences max you
might have to combine we're not
comparing though just see if you can do
this just describe
the various levels of education please
okay I'll give you three minutes
in fact I'll give you five because I'm
feeling generous
you
excellent so I've got one here on
YouTube which I'm happy about people who
participated in the voting had various
levels of education the highest number
of voters graduated from college and
some was still in college while the
lowest voters had no qualifications at
all that's a really nice description of
the key features there let me read some
of them out from the live class here
overall some college and college
graduation were the most preferred
amongst both groups
conversely no high school and
postgraduate education were the less
popular amongst them high school
graduates was in third place okay
good but I don't think popular is the
right word here it's not about
popularity it's about attainment
achievement not popularity so you could
say most people achieved some college
education or most of the voters had
achieved college education achieved not
popular so think about those key words
like them alright by analyzing the given
graph it can be noticed that a slight
number of voters a small number of
owners and not holding a high school
education degree however the majority
portion among both sets had achieved
some college and colleague graduate
degrees excellent well done well done
that's all you need to do you're just
generally describing the graph in the
next section we get into the comparison
of the data that's that's different okay
you know most people in the USA had
graduated from high school college and
had a certain level of college degree a
few individuals are not only able to
attain high school and postgraduate
qualifications not bad not bad not bad
overall the least number of people did
know high school followed by an who'd by
those who did post graduation
postgraduate studies most people did
some college or graduated from college
well a fewer did high school graduation
it's hard to write this in a way that's
fluent and clear
and in easy-to-read it really does
require practice and what you're really
doing here is you're stepping back from
that graph you're stepping back and
you're not looking at the numbers you
really look in the the image of the
graph and you're noticing that here is
small it's quite quite a really quite a
basic thing you're doing you're really
stepping back and saying okay
if I just look at the pattern the key
features of this graph I can see that
most people achieved college degrees
okay so I can write a sentence saying
most voters or most Democrat and
Republican voters in the US had achieved
a college level degree and then I look
over here and very few people did not
finish high school and then I can write
another sentence very few people did not
finish high school or just achieved high
school certificate what's the word there
attainment something like that cool well
done well done well done good let me
read your mind again I'm gonna read you
mine again
so you get this here we go since this
part here now there's no numbers in here
you can see there's no numbers I'm just
generally describing key features
overall educational qualifications
varied among voters very few people did
not graduate from high school and a
small percentage achieved postgraduate
qualifications I could probably say in a
reasonably small or a relatively small
relatively that would be a good way to
make that more accurate a relatively
small percentage achieved postgraduate
qualifications
most people attained a high school
certificate achieve some college or
actually graduated from college okay now
we go into the comparison of Democrats
versus Republicans because we've
generally described the graph here now
we get into the comparison so let's have
a look at how we compare data I'm going
to read you this then we're going to
look at it and see how I did it
comparatively there were more Democrats
than Republicans that did not finish
high school while about two percent of
Republicans did not finish high school
about four percent of Democrats did not
finish high school that's too repetitive
I don't know I'll think about how I can
change that but that's too repetitive
next sentence and next part of the graph
both Democrats and Republicans were
almost equal in terms of graduating from
high school at around 20 percent next
sentence more Republicans achieved some
college boom some college I wrote this
very quickly so I apologize it's not
great more Republicans achieve some
college at around 30% while about 20% of
Democrats achieve some college next one
around 30% of Republicans graduated from
college while this number was slightly
lower for a pub this is terrible in fact
I'm not even going to read you that
because I wrote it extremely quickly
let's just look at it and think about
how we can compare this data so I want
to compare Democrats and Republicans in
terms of those who did not finish high
school and I want to write one one
sentence about no high school okay then
I want to talk about high school
graduates those who finished high school
Democrats and Republicans and I'm going
to say something about it's almost equal
here the slightly more Democrats did not
finish high school then I'm going to
talk about some college and I'm going to
say Republicans more Republicans had
achieved some college education than
Democrats and I'm also going to when I'm
doing this I'm going to start to use
these percentages so what I need to do
the trickiest thing what you need to do
here is think about how you start your
sentences and I'm beginning to think
that the percentage would be a good way
to start so you could say something like
while four percent of Democrats achieved
or did not finish high school only two
percent of Republicans did the same so
let's think about using the percentage
so for example 30 percent of where's
thirty percent thirty percent of
Republicans achieved some college
education there's a good sentence a good
clear sentence some college so I want
you to let me just finish that college
education so think about the subject of
your sentence thirty here's your subject
here thirty percent of Republicans
here's your verb achieved some college
education while only twenty seven
percent of Democratic Democrats did so
let's do this
think about your sentences by starting
with X percentage of Democrats or
Republicans
and then you want your verb here
achieved for example dot dot dot let's
just write this sentence by sentence I
first just want you to do this one here
okay
please write one sentence comparing
Democrats and Republicans in terms of
having a high school degree
you
all right let's have a look at your
sentence here okay
very few Democrats did not complete high
school education while the number of
Republicans was even fewer
good good really good well done that's
it that's it that's it the only thing
you need to include it some of the
y-axis some of the percentage so instead
of saying a very few you could have said
3% oh sorry
what is it 4% of Democrats did not
receive a high school education while
only 2% of Republicans did or did not
good
let's about 4% of Democrats have no high
school degree that do see the problem
with IELTS writing task 1 is it's hard
to find a simple sentence to write this
sentence I really like about 4% of
Democrats have no high school degree
while just 2% of Republicans did not
attain a high school degree that is
crystal clear the key to this is is
writing clearly my example wasn't a good
example and I apologize I wrote it in
about I don't know 45 seconds after I
just woken up from a sleep under my desk
but the key here is to find the subject
if you can find a good subject of the
sentence now it could be Democrat it
could be no high school degree how are
you going to start your sentence or it
could be 4% of Democrats
there's your subject now we need a verb
did not achieve a high school degree
that is how is we're going to write this
one in fact what I might do in a second
is is write it from beginning from the
beginning good alright excellent I'm
happy with that let's do the next
sentence now I want you to compare
whoopsie
I'm sorry I want you to compare those
Democrats and Republicans with high
school graduation let me delete that so
let's do number two let's think about
this one here
one sentence please
you
good let's have a look
democrat and republican holders of high
school graduate degrees were almost the
same
. next sentence you can you can it
doesn't have to be in one sentence you
can write two sentences about the same
thing that's fine
good republicans were slightly higher
than democrats with twenty two percent
with twenty twenty two percent fine
good regarding high school attendance
while high school graduation both the
Democrats and the Republicans attained
the same level of this kind of education
almost at 30% good was at 30% 20% but
anyway good that's fine
moreover Democrats and Republicans have
almost the same percentage in attaining
graduation degree of high school fine
all right I'm going to do something here
just bear with me because I want to
write mine again because I'm really not
happy about what I wrote so I'm gonna
show you how what my brain does when I'm
trying to do this because it's really
not easy okay it's really not easy even
for a native English speaker it's not
easy doing this so let me delete that
let me increase the size and I'm going
to let me increase the size of this I'm
actually going to write this in front of
you
okay okay that should be fine now I
don't need that so that's fine no I
don't need that I can take that okay
let's have a look at my screen here okay
all right I'm going to type this I'm
gonna I won't do the y-axis data
accurately but I'm gonna show you the
importance of choosing a good subject so
I'm gonna say approximately whoops
that's too big let me just make that a
bit smaller
okay so let's say this let's say
approximately 4% whoops 4% of Democrats
did not achieve or did not pass that's
my verb did not pass did not achieve or
did not graduate from high school
approximately 4% of Democrats did not
graduate wait from high school in
comparison what can I say
to only 2% 2% sorry 2% of Republicans
now I need to think about another way to
say graduate from high school did
achieve did pass or did complete high
school okay let's look at this because
it's interesting for a number of reasons
firstly what's the subject of my
sentence here well this is it here
here's the subject of my sentence and I
think this is a really good way to go
approximately 4% of Democrats did not
graduate
there's my verb from high school and
then I compared in a second sentence I
said in comparison to percent of
Republicans there's my subject here's my
verb did complete high school nice nice
I'm happy with that now let's talk about
what's the other one what's the other
one
okay a high school graduation okay okay
so it's almost equal at about 22% so
what I'm going to say here is this I'm
gonna say in terms of a high school
qualification
Democrats and Republicans are almost
equal
at approximately 22% cool let's separate
this just for argument's sake and let's
look at our second sentence here so I've
done something interesting here I've
introduced the next qualification by
saying in terms of a high school
qualification
now I've written a single sentence
Democrats and Republicans
there's my subject here's my verb are
almost equal at approximately 22% great
let's just do one more I'm gonna
decrease the size and I'm gonna go down
here I'm going to look at this graph and
I'm going to look at some college now
again what's my subject am I going to
start my sentence by saying some college
nor am I gonna start my sentence by
talking about Democrats okay okay maybe
maybe I can do that I can say okay
I could say Republicans have its help
this is this is the problem how am I
going to do this okay well I think the
easiest way is to write like the first
sentence I did and say approximately 27
percent of Democrats have some college
while Republicans have slightly more
okay let's do that so I'm going to do
the same thing but I've used
approximately so I say all my I'm going
to just use it again until I can think
of another word approximately 27 percent
of Democrats have some college
experience is it experience what is it
some have partial colleagues this is the
problem in the IELTS - because you're
writing with a pen and paper so you have
to restart this so you really want to do
your thinking before you write so let's
think approximately 20% of Democrats
have partial college degrees fine I'm
going to start a new sentence or I can
just say while Republicans have slightly
have slightly more is that correct of
slightly higher rates
of this level of education I mean it's
not great but let's have a closer look
at it it's a really hard sentence to
write so here's my subject approximately
27% of Democrats where's my red one have
there's my verb partial college degrees
then I then I coordinate it and I put
two sentences together and then I say
Republicans there's my subject he's my
verb have it's the same verb but that's
fine slightly higher rates of this level
of education that was a tough one
let's do one more let's do one more
let's do the post graduate one because
it's quite different okay so okay let's
run a different sentence let's say while
approximately 20 percent of Democrats
have a postgraduate degree only 17
percent of Republicans have the same
level of degree okay fine so I'm gonna
start with a wild sentence okay so I'm
going to say while I can't remember the
number what was it again 17 percent
while 17 percent of Democrats have
achieved a postgraduate degree this
number is relatively fewer or less for
Republican voters
okay so I've written a different type of
sentence here a different type of
sentence and what I've done here is I've
put this while at the beginning then
I've done my subject here's my subject
in red and then I put my verb but this
time it's have achieved so I write have
achieved a postgraduate degree then I've
said this number is relatively fewer or
less for Republican voters okay you can
see you can see even it's this is really
hard but the key is to find the subject
once you find that subject
sentences will come a lot easier but if
you're struggling to identify the start
of the sentence is it Republican is a
Democrat is that some college is a 27%
of Democrats once you find that subject
your sentences will then start to flow
more easily and when you're comparing
you can do it in a single sentence or
you can write two sentences but you need
those words that compare like while or
in comparison or in contrast or
conversely or something like that okay
really tough let's do one more let's
let's have a look at I want you to do
the post graduate one please write one
sentence comparing Republicans and
Democrats in terms of their postgraduate
education please
you
all right let's take a look what have we
got what have we got
I washed my hair with shampoo never
doing that again
never washing my hair again it's gone
like a fluffy I don't know it's not good
anyway here we go first of all somebody
said is it okay to repeat the word
approximately well not really you
shouldn't use different synonyms like
almost or about or around
conversely almost 20% of Democrats
attained postgraduate degrees while the
figure for Republicans was only 15% yes
yes that's good well done I'm gonna read
that again
conversely almost 20% of Democrats
subject attained verb good good good
good good
postgraduate degrees object while the
figure for Republicans was only 15%
excellent well done the Democrats have
more voters with postgraduate degrees at
about 17% compared to the Republicans
that only have about 15% of their
supporters that hold a postgraduate
degree also very good well done
Democrats who completed postgraduate
degrees is about 20% which recording a
higher portion than Republicans that one
needs some work for postgraduate levels
about 17% of Democrats were recorded
while a little below this figure was for
Republicans not bad following a
different trend the Republicans had
approximately less than 17% postgraduate
degrees than the Democrats who had with
almost 3% more than the Republicans good
well done somebody said surprisingly
there should be no words like
surprisingly in this this is a very
dispassionate no opinion no words like
surprisingly or it's obvious or it's
clear or anything like that it's just a
pure description so no opinions
no emotion should go into this adults
very scientific so let's say Republicans
achieved lower graduates than Democrats
in postgraduate education 15% and tour
which was 15% and 20% respectively so
you mister which was part good well done
good good good good good good good all
right I'm not gonna read your mind cuz
mine was terrible let's just recap what
we've learned all right you need to
summarize the graph we learned how to do
that by rewriting the description then
we take a step back this one's actually
harder than it looks and we need to
describe the main trends or the key
features and how we do that is well how
we do that is we step back from the
graph and we look at how we've looked
visually at the graph okay first of all
we notice that it varied so we write a
sentence that it varied then we'll write
a few sentences about how very few
people have no high school education and
very few people have postgraduate
education then we'll write a sentence
about how most people were in the middle
most people had either some college a
color or a college degree high school
some college or college degree so they
were out three sentences and again what
we did was we stood back from it and
looked at it from the bird's eye view
then we got a microscope out and we
looked in detail of the two Republicans
and Democrats and this had 17% and this
one had 18% and they were almost equal
and we compared that and we use the data
that is how you nail this task in the
IELTS writing this is by no means an
easy task this has really been teaching
this for a long time and even for me I
mean I'm not good at mathematics maybe
that's my problem but I find this really
challenging I really have to stop and
think for essays for me I can just write
an essay to digital to do no problem but
for this task I have to stop and I have
to think and go okay what am I looking
at here what am I looking at
then I can start to describe it properly
and the key that we found here is that
you need to identify your subject mean
to sink what is what is the first part
of my sentence before the verb 17
percent of Democrat voters achieved VirB
something like that it's it's tough it's
tough it's tough anyway yes
so we described main trends and then we
describe in detail and we compare that's
that that's the key bit there so anyway
that's what mine looked like there's one
hundred and seventy six words I wrote it
in about four minutes so please don't
judge me on this one because the third
paragraph was not great but anyway
that's what happens and don't do that on
test day all right if you need any help
if you want some feedback if you need
some methods for any of the tasks please
go to e to language comm think about
signing up for a paid package because we
do give you feedback and give you
tutorials you can join the live classes
there's lots and lots of benefits to
gain from becoming a member right now
though I'm gonna answer some questions
and then I'm gonna go home and have a
cup of tea and I'm gonna go to bed any
questions please I'm wondering what I'll
do in the exam if I find that I need to
delete one sentence that I've already
written to make it better
can I scratch it and rewrite it this is
the problem with writing handwriting and
si yes you can put a line through it you
apparently you're not discredited or
penalized for putting a right align
through your sentence so that's fine
good question
I think the key though on us is to think
is to think before you write because the
problem that happens is you start
writing your sentence and then you go oh
it's not working it's not making sense
and then you're scratching it out what
you want to do is stop and think your
sentence and go okay I'm gonna start
with 17 percent of voters had
postgraduate degrees compared to only 15
percent of Republican voters okay that
were seventeen percent of Democratic
voters
it might change slightly but think
before you write your sentence that will
help cool
all right all right right guys I'm gonna
leave it there yeah somebody said this
this this exam is not easy I agree with
you
okay so Emmy Adele I'm a bronze student
I did my IELTS exam one week ago and the
result is not yet announced so my
question is which is the best time to
have my tutorial you should have taken
your tutorial before your exam hopefully
you don't need to take it I mean if you
get the results fantastic if you don't
get the results you should schedule your
tutorial immediately or yes because you
want to get the feedback on your writing
you want to begin to understand what
you're doing wrong okay
so that'll be critical so do book that
straight away Emmy
cool thanks Joelle appreciate the
birthday wishes I just turned 33 on
Sunday I'm getting some gray hairs and
yes but I'm not getting fat and I'm not
getting bald yet yet maybe soon see you
guys soon
you